[SWOOSH]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>EMERY SMITH: Today
on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we're with Ricardo Gonzalez,
author and researcher from Peru
who has experienced
multiple direct contacts
with an extraterrestrial
species called the Apunians.
Today we are talking about
the myth of Shambhala.
Ricardo, welcome to the show.
>>RICARDO GONZALEZ CORPANCHO:
Thank you again, Emery.
>>EMERY: What is
the Shambhala myth,
and where is it taking place?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
I confess that this is one of
the most fascinating topics I
have researched and that I
am deeply passionate about.
Shambhala is the name of a
supposed lost city in Asia.
It is a very important
place for Buddhism.
Some Lamas think that Shambhala
is not exactly a hidden city,
but rather a
spiritual realm where
the great masters of
Earth's history live,
a place of peace,
a temple of peace.
In fact, the Sanskrit name
Shambhala means place of peace.
>>EMERY: Where did
it originate from?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
It is thought that the
origin of Shambhala
is in Tibet or some
Himalayan country.
However, according
to my research,
the origin is in Mongolia in
the heart of the Gobi Desert.
There's an ancient
tradition in the Gobi Desert
that speaks of beings
who came from Heaven,
great minds who trained ancient
humans in spiritual knowledge.
Then everything would have
been born in the Gobi Desert.
And from this
information, knowledge
traveled towards the Tibetan
Plateau, Northern India,
and other Asian countries,
a knowledge that
affected the West much later.
When multiple European
explorers delved
into the culture of the East
and tried to obtain knowledge
from the East to take to the
West, concepts such as karma,
reincarnation,
meditation, energies,
they took from these
ancient cultures of the East
to share with the
world, sometimes
in the wrong way, taking
these Eastern teachings wildly
out of context.
But it was part of a program,
a spiritual program called
the diffusion of Shambhala.
The diffusion of
Shambhala is not just
about revealing the existence
of this supposed lost city,
but also of the
knowledge it represents.
And this is of
great interest to me
because it has a common thread
with the experience in Peru
from everything I learned in
shamanic circles in my country.
According to one of the messages
of the extraterrestrials,
Shambhala was the
first peace shrine
in the world that
was established
after the last destruction
that our planet experienced.
This destruction,
spoken of by some
of the masters of
ancient Greece,
as in the case of the
Great philosopher Plato,
they called the fall of
Atlantis, which by the way
is not knowledge
exclusive to the Greeks.
The Greeks took that
information from the Egyptians.
Probably the Egyptians from
previous civilizations.
The Lamas with whom I
have spent time in Asia
speak of the same
destruction, of something
incredible and deplorable
that happened on our planet
thousands of years ago.
Great destruction, floods,
and entire civilizations
disappeared.
The knowledge of
these civilizations,
according to the
Lamas, was gathered
by the beings of Heaven,
and with that they
founded Shambhala.
Then the teachings that
emerged from Shambhala,
according to this
legend, were gathered
in the first temples of Asia.
Today this
information is hidden.
They are not found
in the temples
that a tourist would
visit in Northern India.
>>EMERY: Wasn't there a
connection with Shambhala
and the famous Russian
artist Nicholas Roerich?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
Nicholas Roerich
in my opinion has
been the most important
disseminator of the Shambhala
myth.
This information from Shambhala
has reached many countries
thanks to Roerich's
expeditions in Central Asia.
We have to go back to the 1920.
Nicholas Roerich was one
of the first Westerners
after Marco Polo to
enter these cultures.
And Roerich was looking
for Shambhala, and not
exactly the city, but the
information, the knowledge.
The expeditions of this Russian
visual artist and philosopher
were scientific and cultural.
In his native Russia, he had
seen a tremendous neglect
of museums, cultural,
and archaeological sites,
and he had introduced himself to
mystical and spiritual subjects
to the esoterism of his time.
He then undertook a great
expedition to Central Asia,
touring incredible
and fascinating places
in Tibet, Nepal,
Mongolia, China,
India where he was able
to map out sights that
were previously unknown to us.
In these expeditions, he
had the advice and company
of several Lamas who
mentioned that Shambhala
was not just a myth,
but something real,
and that there were beings
living in Shambhala.
>>EMERY: Was there a connection
between the ETs and Shambhala?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
For example, in 1927 during
Nicolas Roerich's expedition
through the mountains of
Tibet, a golden object
appeared in the sky.
The whole expedition stopped.
The animal stood still
and a very pleasant aroma
like the most exquisite incense
imbued the entire place.
They took out binoculars
to observe the object.
They saw that it was
metallic in appearance
and that it reflected
the sunlight.
It made an incredibly fast
change of movement and left.
Then Nicholas Roerich
asked the Lamas who
accompanied him, what was that?
And the Lamas answered,
a sign of Shambhala.
Skeptics tried to say that
what Nicholas Roerich saw
had just been some
weather balloons
that an expedition from
Switzerland was using nearby.
But then they understood
that this was impossible,
first because the
Swiss expedition was
500 miles from the site
and those balloons were
too small to be seen, and they
only had a range of 100 miles
before bursting.
And what Nicholas Roerich saw
was something big, huge, moving
at top speed intelligently.
And most disturbingly,
Emery, an object
that the Lamas were
already familiar with.
When I've been in the Gobi
Desert with the Lamas,
they were used to UFO sightings.
And they said to us
through the translator
who we take, the people
who walk in the sky, who
move in those lights
protect the entrance
to the subterranean world.
In that underground
world are the survivors
of previous cultures
that humanity currently
considers a myth.
And the descendants of those
cultures lost in the past
are the current
masters of Shambhala.
And if this were not
enough, Nicholas Roerich
had contact with
those human beings
of the underground world.
According to my research
in Central Asia,
the contact was not in
Tibet, but in Mongolia
in the Altai Mountain range.
These mountains stretch
from China and Mongolia
to Siberia and Russia.
And it was in Mongolia
where Nicholas Roerich
had this close encounter
in the Mongolian section
of this mountain range.
He entered into a grotto
there inside a cave
and he met human beings like us.
They were not extraterrestrial
entities, but humans.
As I said, descendants
of forgotten
lost cultures who are part of
a subterranean secret society.
And in some esoteric circles
it is known as the Great White
Brotherhood.
Beside the fact that esoterism
can confuse this information,
it is based on a
real experience.
These physical guardians
of secret entrances
to the underground world are in
contact with the crews of UFOs.
For that reason, the
Lamas said, that object
is a sign of the Shambhala.
Now you have to
remember a small detail.
Everything that I'm describing
is in Roerich's diaries,
at least as far as the
UFO sighting is concerned.
And I would emphasize
in 1927, 20 years
before the beginning of the
modern era of UFOs, Nicholas
Roerich was here in
the United States.
He brought all the information
from his expeditions
and contact and created
a worldwide movement,
because according to the
beings who contacted Roerich,
humans had to make great
efforts to protect the Earth's
places of knowledge from
museums, temples, anything that
involves genius and
human knowledge,
to the natural sanctuaries of
the world that must prevail.
It was an extraordinary message
from these masters which
Roerich managed to get the
United States to sign on
in 1935 with President Franklin
Delano Roosevelt. This became
known as the Roerich
Covenant to protect
the places of the Earth.
For people who are watching
us now and become aware
of the importance of what
I'm saying, when UNESCO says,
for example, that Machu
Picchu in my country
is a cultural
heritage of humanity,
it is based on the Roerich pact.
I'm saying that the UNESCO
protocol for the protection
of cultural sites is based on
a close encounter of Nicolas
Roerich.
Even many people who
were very involved
with the Banner
of Peace movement
are unaware of this background.
In fact, the symbol of
the Banner of Peace,
a circle with
another three circles
concentrated in the middle,
this is a cosmic symbol,
the symbol of the
founders of Shambhala,
which is known in Central
Asia as the Cintamani stone.
The stone is capable of
making your dreams come true
because that symbol represents
a rock that came from the cosmos
to Earth from Orion and stood
on top of a tower in Shambhala.
It was separated into
three small fragments
and it secretly
toured the world.
This symbol represents
very profound things,
and Nicholas Roerich used it
to create this banner of peace,
changing its meaning
a little for people.
The three inner
circles represent
the union of art,
science, and spirituality.
But it is nonetheless
the stone of Cintamani,
the Holy Grail of
Orion, so to speak,
which was in the
original Shambhala.
There are many things that have
happened in contact experiences
that unite the myth of Shambhala
and the extraterrestrials,
and which today have become
very accepted on a human level.
It is common to see
Roerich's Banner of Peace
at a UNESCO or
United Nations event.
If they only knew that it is
an extraterrestrial symbol.
>>EMERY: Are these ET
beings of Shambhala
influencing the Earth
and the universe today?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO THROUGH
INTERPRETER: Absolutely, Emery.
Remember, Emery, we were talking
about a conflict of forces
on Earth and that
human beings are
in the middle of
this war of time.
I mentioned to you that some
researchers concentrated
solely and exclusively
on negative experiences
for the human species.
As I told you, there were
also positive influences
to try to balance the scales.
And this has to be
so for human beings
to find their middle ground.
Look, for example, at what
happened to Nicholas Roerich
from his close encounter
in the Altai Mountains
and his expedition
through Central Asia.
The Banner of Peace
movement was born.
From a contact, the catalyst
for world peace was born.
Isn't this a positive influence?
In the time of Nicholas
Roerich, other individuals
who lived according
to Eastern wisdom
came here to the United States
to share that knowledge.
It was part of a plan
because the United States
is the most influential
country in the world,
making decisions that
affect the entire globe.
And it is important for
America to become spiritual.
At the same time, in
addition to Nicholas Roerich,
there were individuals like
Krishnamurti and Paramahansa
Yogananda who conveyed the
same spiritual concepts.
They lectured and
filled entire theaters,
because there was a lot of
spiritual thirst for knowledge
in the United States, and
that legacy continues today.
It is the program of Shambhala.
It is a positive
influence, as I hope
this interview will be for the
people who are watching us.
Now then, these beings who
try to positively influence
the culture of light on Earth
cannot intervene directly
in our affairs.
They should not.
They only try to plant
possibilities in us
through knowledge, which allows
us to make better decisions.
So it is preferable
that we connect
with these positive
influences of culture,
and as humans make appropriate
and fair decisions.
>>EMERY: Are you suggesting
that these spiritual influences
are from ETs?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO THROUGH
INTERPRETER: Not necessarily.
I'm speaking of the ancient
knowledge that was in Asia,
but unknown to the West.
I call this knowledge from Asia
the Shambhala Consciousness
Program.
And some individuals-- like I
mentioned, Nicholas Roerich--
were part of this plan
for this knowledge
to migrate to the
West, especially
to the United States.
Now having said
that, it is likely
that some ancient
knowledge of Asia linked
to the legend of Shambhala,
or the knowledge of Shambhala
may have been stimulated by
contact with extraterrestrials.
For example, in India
there's a legend
that the practice of mantras
was a gift from the gods.
It reminds me of the
movie "Close Encounters
of the Third Kind" where
in the North of India
in the town of Dharamshala
people are chanting a mantra.
[CHANTING] And that
mantra was created
as a result of a sound
that came from the sky,
the sound produced by a ship.
And this sound, as
we all remember,
became the famous
theme song of the film.
Beyond Spielberg's film, these
things have happened in reality
and have emerged from knowledge
of contact experiences.
And I believe in India these
things are no exception.
>>EMERY: So what is the
connection between Shambhala
and the stars?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
I think I should go back to the
explanation of the Cintamani
stone, because
according to legend,
Cintamani came to Shambhala
from the Orion stellar sector.
Orion once again.
According to this
information, in the universe
there are crystals of power.
According to the
extraterrestrials,
when our universe became
physical as we perceived it,
energy arose from other
nonphysical planes of reality.
It materialized.
It densified.
And these crystals have
very powerful properties
because it is as if they coexist
in this and another world,
in the world of matter
and in the subtle world.
One of these mother stones--
we will call it that--
came to Earth as a
part of a mission
brought by
extraterrestrial entities,
always according to the
information that these beings
have given us.
And with that stone they founded
Shambhala, as we discussed.
And something more interesting,
in India and Tibet,
especially in Mongolia,
this mother stone
is called by the
Sanskrit word Cintamani.
Cinta means thought and
mani, precious jewel.
So Cintamani means
the stone or jewel
of thought, a kind
of cosmic tool.
For all humans who
come close to it,
it enhances their
capabilities for cocreation.
It is Shambhala's connection
to a secret knowledge
of the universe.
And it's interesting
because this green stone--
and for the first
time I'm mentioning
the color that this stone
had, according to legend--
it reminds me of a legend
in South America from very
ancestral peoples in the
Andes, in Ecuador especially,
who called this stone umiña.
Umiña means emerald in
their native language.
Umiña could heal people.
Not that it was an emerald.
It was green like an emerald.
And there are many myths in
this world relating to this.
There's another very important
myth from the Middle Ages
that speaks of the legend
of the Holy Grail, that
says that after a war of angels
in Heaven, from Lucifer's
forehead an emerald falls,
a green stone like the myth
of Cintamani in Central Asia.
And when that green
stone comes to Earth,
it becomes the mythical
chalice of Christ
that is used in the Last Supper.
Behind all these myths
there is a secret knowledge
and a symbol, cosmic and
powerful, cocreating,
which Nicholas Roerich
knew how to place
on his banner of peace.
>>EMERY: Is that rock
shown on any art?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO THROUGH
INTERPRETER: Initially
the stone was in the Gobi
Desert, and the three fragments
that are always moving
around the world,
we do not currently know
where they are located,
but we know where they were.
For example, we know that
one of these fragments
was on Easter Island in
Rapa Nui in Polynesia.
Legend has it that on
this Polynesian island
in the Pacific a
very powerful energy
was deposited inside a
volcano, the energy of mana.
But not the mana of
the Hebrew people
that is mentioned
in the Bible, which
allowed them to live on this
food that fell from Heaven,
but an energy that some
Rapa Nui traditions mention
as a bright green
vibration, an energy that
brought the statues to life
on Easter Island, called moai.
This is one of the
many interpretations.
But there is a consensus on the
existence of this magical force
called mana.
It is probably related to
these energies or forces
of extraterrestrial
origin or a connection
to the myth of Cintamani.
>>EMERY: What does it mean
to discover Shambhala today?
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
I think there's a very
powerful message behind it.
I made such a commitment
to this message
that I joined the
Roerich movement
to spread the message of
consciousness, of peace.
I call this process
the discovery
of your inner Shambhala.
When I started to live
all this experience
of extraterrestrial
contact in Peru,
I was more fascinated
by external experiences,
by the phenomenon.
That was logical,
but over time I
discovered that these
beings were right
when we are told again and again
that the main contact you must
reach is not with us but with
yourselves, because personal
and internal contact opens
the doors of the universe.
We can make mistakes.
We are human.
But you have to try.
And I call that the
inner Shambhala.
Shambhala means
the place of peace,
the place of tranquility.
So find your inner Shambhala.
It is to find that
point of nonconflict,
the point of nonresistance.
We are not only being assisted
by extraterrestrial entities.
And I'm talking about
positive influences,
of course, because there
are all kinds of things
in the universe.
We are also being assisted
by this Shambhala program,
if we may call it that,
that tries to equalize,
to balance things on the
planet, for human beings
to make the right decision.
The program continues,
and sharing information
and interviews like this that
thousands of people watch
is part of the mission.
Everyone will know what to
do with this information, how
this information resonates,
what to research.
>>EMERY: That's so
beautiful, Ricardo.
I always wanted to learn
a lot about Shambhala.
Thank you so much for
being on the show.
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
Thank you, my brother.
>>EMERY: I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
>>ANNOUNCER: Next on
"Cosmic Disclosure."
>>GONZALEZ CORPANCHO
THROUGH INTERPRETER:
The Mayans were
quoted as having said
things which they never said.
This led to many groups who are
enthusiastic about prophecies
to come to think that the Maya
prophesied an end of the world,
and the Maya never said that.
When information
is misinterpreted,
credibility is lost.
They're crazy.
They are part of UFO cults.
It's part of the plan.
Question everything.
Investigate sources in depth
because this is the best
way to get to the truth.
[THEME MUSIC]